See [Length_Restricted_Catch_with_VAST](https://github.com/John-R-Wallace-NOAA/Length_Restricted_Catch_with_VAST)

Finding juvenile Petrale sole areas using VAST on the WCGTBS for years 2003-15:

1.	WCGTBS data<br>
    a.	Since not all Petrale sole are aged, length at age information was looked at to determine what lengths best represented young Petrale. (Table and Fig)<br>
    b.	Tow locations were used to determine how quickly juveniles spread out along the coast, as they grew longer.<br>
    c.	Data of the very smallest Petrale was minimal.<br>
    d.	Petrale sole less than or equal to 18 cm was determined to have enough survey data to identify presence in coastal areas, but not too old to have spread along the entire coast.<br>
    e.	Length and weight information within WCGTBS was used to find the proportion of Petrale sole’s total weight within a tow that is less than or equal to the length specified.<br>
    f.	When only a length was available, the specimen weight was estimated, by sex, from the length-weight relationships in the 2015 Petrale sole stock assessment (Ref).<br> 
    g.	The length-weight relationship was also used to QA/QC the specimen weight information.<br>

2.	VAST<br> 
a.	An extrapolation grid based on the data, not a region ( i.e. Region = ‘Other’ not e.g. Region = ‘California Current’) was used.<br> 
b.	One coastal area was used, with the range of the 18 cm and below juvenile Petrale defining the latitudinal extent of the area and the depth range.<br>
c.	Six hundred knots asked for using the ‘Mesh’ method (580 unique extrapolation grid areas, each associated with a knot was received).<br>
d.	The dependent variable used was CPUE, biomass divided by swept area of the net.<br>
e.	Depth was used as a covariate. The knot’s GIS depth were found using the ‘depthMeters’ function in the ‘Imap’ package (Ref).<br>
f.	After running VAST, good diagnostics were observed, e.g. a good Q-Q plot<br>
g.	Consistent high areas of CPUE over years were then identified.<br>
h.	These areas (groups of the extrapolation grid points) were created by VAST to have similar spatial characteristics. <br>
i.	A subjective decision was made on how high of CPUE within a year and how consistent over years achieved the goal of a judiciously large number of areas, some of which juvenile Petrale sole may not have. utilized in certain years, or potentially, they were not found in that area by the random blocked designed WCGBTS survey.<br>
j.	The decision was that the CPUE of an area needed to be in the top 15% within a year for at least 3 of the 13 years (2003-2015).<br>


3.	Polygons<br> 
a.	Groups of adjacent VAST areas (defined by the criteria above) were defined and delineated by a polygon.<br>
b.	 The polygons were created using non convex hulls generated by the ‘inla.nonconvex.hull’ function in the ‘INLA’ R package.<br> 
c.	The R function ‘polyoffset’ in the package, ‘polyclip’ (Ref) was used to shrink or expand the polygons when necessary.<br>
d.	The polygons were created to be outside of a group of VAST areas by half the distance between grid points (~1 nm).<br>
e.	The raw data as bubbles (CPUE proportion to the circle area), VAST areas, and surrounding polygons were plotted using ‘plotGIS’ in the package ‘Imap’ (Ref) for the underlying GIS figure.<br>
f.	Keeping in mind the sparse of the juvenile Petrale data, the following objective rules were applied when defining the groups of VAST areas:<br>
i.	If there was at least one catch of juvenile Petrale sole (a raw data bubble) per 25 km, with all points lying between the same bathymetric curves, then these groups and the catch of juvenile Petrale were contained within a single polygon. The distance spanned between two groups, not occupied with other groups, within a single polygon was less than 35 km.<br>
ii.	If, however, the group of VAST areas (perhaps only a single area) was on a seamount, then this group has its own polygon.<br>
iii.	If one or more survey catches of juvenile Petrale sole was closely associated with a group then the polygon was extended to include at least the center of the raw data bubble (the center of bubble defines the location of tow, the size of the area of the bubble only shows the amount of CPUE).<br>

